head	1.1;
access;
symbols;
locks;
comment	@# @;


1.1
date	96.01.07.15.15.23;	author dz;	state Exp;
branches;
next	;


desc
@@


1.1
log
@Initial revision
@
text
@$Id: Config.Sys 1.11 1996/01/06 23:59:19 dz Exp $

Hi there, those who can't read in Russian. I'm sorry, but there's
still no dox in english. I'll try to do my best in next versions, 
but nothing guaranteed.

Here's a brief translation of russian read.me.

Q: What's this?

A: Automatic netmail routing table builder called FRIP.



Q: How does it work in brief?

A: FRIP is a decentralized system, no central authority or control
required. Each one, who needs that, sets up FRIP for his system and
systems running FRIP start to exchange routing information packets
called 'rips' or 'ads' here. Each ad carries information about one
routing destination (either one node or complete network or even
zone or domain) and gives information about which node mail addressed
to that destination can be routed to. Each frip node once a while
creates ads describing himself and broadcasts them around. Directly
connected nodes receive this ad and send it along to their other links,
and ad goes on and on until it makes it to a node, which knows shorter
path to the given destination, that this ad came through.


Q: Which ad is considered to be better among two of them?

A: Each ad carries its time of birth inside. Using it we can calculate time
this ad was on its way here. Ad, which took less time to make to us, 
considered to be better.


Q: Does it mean that FRIP will build me a routing table contating, in
some future, records about all the nodes in the world?? It will be a huge
list, is not it?

A: It is not going to list all nodes in the world in its database.
There's a simple trick to prevent this: FRIP can build routing to
the nets, zones and domains as a whole, and if it knows, how to
send mail to, say, zone 6 in 24 hours, it will ignore information
about worse routing to zone 6 nodes and nets.



Q; Can I announce with FRIP such thing as, say, *:*/*.*@@fidonet.org?

A: Yeah. Domains are fully supported.



Q: And if I do that just to forge routing?

A:
   1. You'll be traced in a moment: all paths are kept in ads.
   2. There's an ability to filter ads in FRIP, and each node
      can define who can send it which kinds of ads, so unwanted
      routing changes can be prevented.



Q: How can I sei thing up?

A: Put everything in a fresh new clean directory. Set up your
   fido.ad file, links.cfg, frip.cfg. If you like to start FRIP
   from other directory, that it was put to, set environment variable
   'FRIP' with a command such as "set FRIP=x:\....\frip.cfg" in your
   autoexec.bat for DOS or Config.Sys for OS/2.


Q: How to run it?

A: Each time your node received *.ri?, but at least once a day.




Q: Where can I ask questions?

A: There's an echo Ru.FRIP in Russia, welcome!


Q: Is there a version for Unix?

A: Not yet, but if you like to port - I'll give you sources.
   (Do not distribute 'em, though). Frip is written in C++
   mostly in system-independent way. Watcom C++ contatiner class
   lib is used, but I'll be gald if you will port it to STL.


@
